Again styling is cool, but
there's actually new CSS you have to
worry about inside the Shadow DOM.
So Shadow DOM, only CSS,
as if this wasn't tricky enough,
there's now a new step you
have to learn for your job.
So host, right,
host is basically a way to select,
from inside the web component, you select
the parent host,
the parent custom element.
Does that sound right?
So the Shadow DOM goes inside
the custom element, but
you want to style custom-alert.
So how you do that,
I have a div here with a p,
but I want to also add
a p inside the host,
and I'm gonna do the slot thing.
And then I can style this one, the host p,
I can reference things
inside the shadow element.
I could style the whole host as well.
But this is stuff you have to do in here.
I could do, I have to open this.
I can style the whole host.
I may need to make a display block,
cuz it's just kinda weird about that,
right?
And so now,
I can style the whole element itself.
So this is helpful if you
just need a little more.
If you want the whole element to
be different colored background or
something like that, this is a good way to
just kind of let's style the host itself.
And then there's actually a cool thing.
Not only can you do that, but
you can style based on the host context.
What element is the hosting?
I'm gonna change it.
So this one, our example element
is just a regular example element.
And then we have an example
element in a card.
And we told our thing,
if you're in a card,
if you're in the host context of a card,
turn your background pink,
and then add I'm in a card,
and it does it.
So that's kind of a superpower too.
If you think about like, I think of
cards all the time, I don't know.
If something's in a card,
I maybe want the padding or
something to behave a little
differently or something like that,
I don't wanna write these one-off
overrides or something like that.
I'm thinking buttons or something.
But again, this is sort of newish tech.
But I think there's places where you can
use this and sort of contextualize your
element based on where it appears, cuz we
don't know where our components appear.
But now, we can kinda say, well,
if it appears in this situation,
now do something.
So a little different, a little new,
it's like a parent selector almost or
something, or the ampersand in SAS or
something like that.
Slotted, okay,
this is actually a pseudo-element,
that's why there's two dots.
This is basically just says
anything that gets slotted in.
And it will target slotted content,
but again,
it has that same limitation like part,
it only does one level deep.
So I have this example element,
I'm pink, but I'm also gonna
slot in a div with a paragraph and
it's gonna say, I'm not pink.
And then my SAS or
CSS inside the web component is
all slotted paragraphs,
turn background pink.
And as you see, the nested paragraph
tag does not get styles applied.
That's because it's too deep,
it can only select one level deep.
And then our Shadow DOM paragraphs
,our host paragraphs are orange.
So one thing you can do, this is something
I've totally done, slotted(*).
So anything slotted at the root element,
just turn it pink,
that's one way to work around it.
But again, you can't do complex
selectors in here, unfortunately.
So I wish it worked like that.
And I think there's even been
conversations about maybe
enabling that,
compounds selectors in slotted, but
that's not something that exists yet, so.
Slotted, and then there's kinda one more
new special CSS feature called defined.
You'll see the slow element and
it took a while, right, to come in.
I'll redo the animation here.
It's gonna take a little,
I set it to fire two seconds late.
You can say, if the slow element is not
defined in your CSS, lower the opacity.
And actually,
you could do that for any element,
because every element in HTML
comes defined out of the box.
And if you just had like,
not :not:defined in your SAS or CSS,
it would just hide any custom element
that has not been defined yet.
But you can also do a slow,
[LAUGH] and then when it is defined,
you can trigger the opacity or whatever.
This is cool and
lets you control fallback experiences.
You could think of a situation
where maybe you want to,
if it's not defined,
make the height 500 pixels.
Cuz I know an element, an image or
something's gonna show up in here,
that might help in your
performance metrics.
But it also can just be
a situation where you wanna make
those skeleton screens or
something like that,
you could kind of fake this stuff in
pretty easily in your Shadow DOM.
So you can have some fake content
that then kind of whatever,
pulses [LAUGH] and fades or something,
and then, boom, upgrades when
it's been defined in the custom element,
is happening, so is engaged.
So kind of interesting,
I think that details utils,
I think Zack used it to do the like,
he'll hide it and open it and measure it.
And that's how you measures it before it's
been defined or something like that, so
kind of interesting.
And then when it's defined,
then he applies the animation stuff.